>> Welcome to House
of Well-Being.
You're listening to the
Menopause Mind Talk Audio.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In a moment, the hypnosis will
begin, but before it does,
I'd just like to remind you that
the following audio contains
powerful, hypnotic
suggestions that
aim to cause deep relaxation.
So please be sure that wherever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and
comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
So please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you, and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now,
there's nothing at all
you need to do apart
from close your eyes,
relax, lie back, and
let go, and enjoy
those peaceful feelings and all
the benefits that come with it.
I'd like you now
to make yourself
as comfortable as
possible, and listen
to the sound of my voice.
And as you do so, you may be
aware of other sounds going on
around you.
But you know that
they're not important.
They don't matter at all.
And you can dismiss them
out of your awareness
and focus your mind
entirely on what I'm saying.
This is your time, and
you make the most of it.
No one needs or wants
anything from you at all.
And I'd like you to
take in a deep breath,
filling your lungs as much as
you can, and let it out slowly.
And again, take in a long, slow
breath, and when you're ready,
let it out slowly.
Now, you can allow
your breathing
to return to normal,
gentle breaths in and out,
returning to your normal
gentle breathing pace.
And I'd like you now
to imagine yourself
outside in your favorite
place in nature.
Maybe it's a peaceful
tropical beach,
or it could be a
beautiful garden.
And maybe you can
imagine lying back
on a boat, which is sailing
on a tranquil river.
It really doesn't matter
where you are, as long
as it feels good to you.
And it's a beautiful day.
The sky is a special
shade of blue, so clear.
And it's a warm summer's day.
There's a breeze gently
blowing over you,
and the temperature is
just how you like it.
And in the sky is
a dazzling sun,
so bright that you just
want to close your eyes
and feel the glowing, healing
warmth of the sun on your body.
And surprisingly, you find
that you can direct that sun
over and around your body.
And as you realize
this, you begin
to direct the light from
the sun over your face.
You can feel the healing
warmth of the light
from the sun over your face,
just relaxing those muscles
around the eyes, around the
nose and mouth and your brow.
And as you do this, you find
that your facial muscles
begin to flatten
out as they relax,
and you let go completely.
And it's a beautiful day.
You move the light from the
sun into the throat area,
feeling the warmth of the light
from the sun in your throat,
relaxing all the muscles, just
letting go completely now.
And the warm sunlight now
moving into your shoulders
and across your
shoulders, making them
feel loose and limp
and comfortable,
as your shoulders sink into
the frame of your body.
And you feel so comfortable
now, so relaxed and happy.
And you let nothing bother
or concern you at all.
And you direct the light from
the sun down your right arm,
from the shoulders to
the tips of your fingers.
Your right arm begins
to relax and let go.
And it's a beautiful feeling
to be here right now.
The warmth of the
light from the sun
penetrates the nerves and bones
and muscles of that right arm.
And it's such a beautiful day.
You move the sun
over to your left arm
and guide the light from the
sun down and up your left arm,
from the top of your
shoulders, all the way down
to the tips of your fingers.
You can feel the left arm
relaxing, becoming comfortably
heavy and totally relaxed.
Now, move that warm light
across and into the chest area,
and relax the chest,
all the muscles there.
Now, down to the stomach,
relaxing your tummy down
into your hips and your
thighs over to your right leg.
The light warms the muscles
as you relax your right leg.
Let it feel comfortable
and heavy now.
Now, move the light from
the sun down your right leg,
up and down from the top of the
hips to the tips of your toes,
as the right leg
relaxes, and you let go.
And it's such a beautiful
day, you now move the light
into your life leg.
You move it up and down the left
leg from the top of the hips
to the tips of your
toes, and your left leg
relaxes, releasing tension,
letting go now completely.
Your whole body is now totally
and completely relaxed,
from the top of your
head all the way down
to the tips of your toes.
And as your body relaxes,
your mind also relaxes.
And I want you now to
notice that the sun is
setting, going down now,
deeper and deeper down.
And you're so deeply
relaxed but still
completely alert and aware.
You resist the temptation
to fall asleep.
Your mind is thoroughly
relaxed, but you
stay focused on these words.
So now, I'd like you to
use your imagination,
and once again, you're in a
wonderful place in nature.
The trees are a
beautiful shade of green.
It's a stunning day, and the
sun is shining down on you.
There's a soft and
gentle breeze in the air,
making you feel pleasantly
relaxed and calm.
All around, you can see
trees and plants and an array
of the most beautiful
flowers you have ever seen,
so colorful and vibrant.
And you can smell the rich
aroma of these flowers,
making you feel so peaceful.
Nothing else matters right now.
You feel completely
at ease and so calm.
And in the distance, you
can hear the sound of water
flowing slowly and gently.
The sound of water is helping
you to go more and more deeply
relaxed.
You may feel your muscles
are listening more and more,
relaxing with a beautiful
flowing sound of water.
Out of curiosity, you decide to
follow the sound of the water,
and you feel excited about
where it's leading you,
knowing deep within
yourself, you're
going to a very special
place, a place where
you're going to create
some positive, wonderful,
long-lasting changes.
As you walk slowly
towards the water,
you can hear the sound of
birds singing in the trees.
You feel totally at ease.
As you finally
reach the lake, you
realize it's the most beautiful
vision you've ever seen,
and you're in awe of the
beauty that surrounds you.
The vast lake is
filled with a variety
of colors, rich colors of blues,
turquoise, and light greens.
And it fills your mind and
body with a wave of relaxation.
You may be becoming more relaxed
with each and every breath
you take, feeling more calm,
more peaceful, and more
relaxed than ever before.
Your mind may be
drifting in and out,
just letting go deeper
and deeper still.
You may feel as though your
mind is flowing gently,
flowing gently like the
lake in your imagination.
You look into the distance,
and you can see a wooden bridge
leading over the lake.
You walk towards the bridge,
feeling more and more
deeply relaxed.
As you reach the
bridge, you can see
there are 10 steps leading over
to the other side of the lake.
You slowly start
walking over the bridge,
counting the steps in your mind.
10, 9, deeper and deeper still.
Eight.
Seven, all the way
down to relaxation now.
6, 5, and 4, drifting off
peacefully and easily.
3, 2, all the way
down, deeply relaxed.
And 1.
You see a comfortable
padded chair,
and you take a seat,
ready to embrace
the changes to come in your
deep state of relaxation now.
And now as you begin
to drift deeper
into the wonderful feeling of
calm and total tranquility,
you can begin to feel your body
working once more in harmony
with your mind, because
for a while now,
you've been experiencing some
of the symptoms of menopause.
And although you're aware that
this is a natural transition
that your body is
going through, you've
also been in discord with your
emotions and the chemicals that
have been changing at this time.
But that's all
changing now, because
with the use of hypnosis
and creative visualization,
you're going to regain
control of those emotions
and chemicals, not
because I say so,
but because you really want
to feel better and enjoy
your life and your
health and fill it
with meaning and purpose again.
In studies conducted,
reports show
that women who participated
in organized relaxation
saw a 30% decrease in their hot
flashes and a significant drop
in tension, anxiety,
and even depression.
They also reported fewer mood
swings and much more stable
emotions overall.
So the good news is, as you
lie here relaxing today,
you help to reduce the
small stresses in your life
by simply setting aside
some time every day now
to relax and unwind.
You make sure your mind and
body are in a relaxed state
to help reduce the
effects of the menopause.
There may be occasional
times after listening
to this audio when you feel
as though those old menopause
symptoms are returning,
but with the use
of the self-hypnotic technique,
which you're about to learn,
you'll be able to make
those symptoms less and less
frequent and so much
easier to cope with,
until, eventually,
in a very short time,
they simply disappear
altogether by themselves.
So allow yourself to
drift further down
into that calm and
peaceful feeling
as you listen to my
voice and my voice only.
Outside sounds or movements can
just dissolve into nothingness
as you become
oblivious to everything
except for this
wonderful feeling
that you're beginning
to experience now.
The symptoms of menopause
can vary from woman to woman,
but the reason for those
symptoms, as you already know,
are the variations and the
release of chemicals, mainly
the hormones, estrogen
and progesterone, that
are produced in your
ovaries and regulated
by your pituitary gland
found in your brain.
And I'd like you now to see or
sense yourself, as you will,
as someone who is
totally in control
of the regulation of those
productions of hormones.
Visualize now what
this looks like,
the productive system
of those warnings.
Maybe you visualize it
like a network of switches.
Perhaps it's multiple times.
Whatever it may be, look
at them now, and see how,
firstly, your estrogen
and progesterone levels
are registered way too low.
See the dial or switch, and
visualize yourself putting it
at the right level,
doing whatever
needs to be done to fix the
problem once and for all,
allowing your body to find
the right level of estrogen
and progesterone,
finding the right balance
with your hormones to make you
feel like your old self again.
Now, find the dial or
switch for adjusting
the flow of capillaries
to your skin that make you
feel hot and flushed at times.
So now, imagine yourself
adjusting the control
to actually make you
feel hot and flushed,
and I'd like you to
adjust the control,
but this time, in the
opposite direction
to make you feel cooler
and much more comfortable.
And as you do this, it's almost
as though a lovely, cool breeze
is wafting over your
face and your neck now,
a cool and comforting
breeze that
begins to spread throughout
your entire body, making you
feel good once more.
Feel it now blowing over you.
That's right.
You can now feel that
wonderful, wonderful breeze.
Imagine that you're standing
outside on an autumn
evening, perhaps a little rain
in the air wetting your skin
and cooling you down.
What can also make
everything seem worse
is the lack of sleep.
So in future, should
you ever begin
to experience those old feelings
associated with hot flashes
or night sweats, I want you
to find a comfortable place
to relax and breathe
slowly and shut your eyes,
and visualize yourself outside
in that autumnal evening
with the rain and cool
breeze washing over you,
coolness spreading
throughout your whole body.
So in order to get
better sleep, you're
also avoiding hot and spicy
foods as well as caffeine,
at least several
hours before bedtime.
You also have a desire
to naturally increase
the estrogen in your
body as you start
to think about the food you eat.
Perhaps you introduce soy
beans or flax sesame seeds
into your diet, as well
as apricots, oranges,
strawberries, peaches, many
dried fruits, carrots, kale,
celery, dark rye bread,
lentils, peas, olives,
olive oil, and chickpeas.
You think about those foods and
how they increase your health.
So go back to your
network or dials
now, and readjust other
symptoms you may be feeling,
such as forgetfulness
or changing weight,
chills, and mood swings.
Look at the dial, and
gradually go along each one,
and change the
setting to something
that suits you to a feeling
that you want to achieve.
Reset exactly how you want to
feel as you take back control.
I'm going to give you a minute
now to readjust each setting.
And from now on, you find that
your sleep is improving day
by day.
You go to bed at a good
time, and you wake up
feeling that you've had a
well rested and full night's
sleep, feeling
rejuvenated and refreshed.
Your body temperature
stays the same all night,
as you feel cool, calm,
and relaxed, waking up
in the morning having slept
through the whole night
easily, peacefully, and calm.
You feel happier, more
confident, and in control.
You think much more positively
as you feel your hormones
balancing in your body, making
you feel more relaxed and calm.
Your memory is
increasing day by day.
When information is read
or taken into your brain,
it's retained.
It stays put.
You remember exactly
what you need
to remember as your memory's
fresh, sharp, just like it
was when you were younger.
You feel happier, more
confident, and in control.
You think much more positively
as you feel your hormones
balancing in your body,
making you feel much more calm
and relaxed.
Your hot flashes have decreased
more and more each day.
As you use the techniques
we've learned today,
closing your eyes,
imagining yourself
outside in the rain with a cool
breeze whenever you need to.
Long, deep breaths as you
visualize that cool breeze.
And you also use that technique
to control your night sweats,
and you sleep a long, well
rested sleep with your body
temperature staying
at a normal rate,
never increasing, just
staying exactly where you've
put the dial.
You feel happier, more
confident, and much more
in control.
You think much more positively,
as you feel your hormones
balancing in your
body, making you feel
much more relaxed and calm.
As your hormones
balance out, you
find, in turn, your
mood swings level out.
You start to think
much more rationally
about situations, challenges,
and daily occurrences
in your life, instead
of thinking emotionally
about things.
You know that life
is good, and you
have a lot to be
grateful for, a lot
to be thankful for, and
you begin to appreciate
the small things in your life,
the beauty of the world you
live in, your
friends and family,
having a roof over your head,
all helping to lift your mood
and make you smile
more frequently.
You feel happier, more
confident, and in control.
You think much more positively,
because you feel your hormones
balancing in your body, making
you feel more relaxed and calm.
You regain control
of your weight
by making some
changes to your diet.
If you've increased
weight, you make
sure you cut down on
your sugar, and you
manage your portion sizes, and
you eat much more healthily.
And if you've lost
weight, you ensure
you eat three
healthy meals a day
and include healthy
snacks in between.
You make sure that you
exercise regularly,
knowing that this will help
keep you at the right weight
and help you
emotionally by making
you feel happier and healthier.
You feel happier, more
confident, and in control,
and you think much
more positively
as you feel your hormones
balancing in your body,
making you feel more
relaxed and calm.
From now on in, you
feel fully in control.
You know you can listen to
this audio as many times
as you need to, knowing that
you can reset your hormone
symptoms each and
every time you listen,
helping you to
rebalance your hormones,
take back control, and
feel much more comfortable
within your mind and body.
You feel happier, more
confident, and in control.
You think much more positively
as you feel your hormones
balancing in your body, making
you feel more relaxed and calm.
And these hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded in your
subconscious mind,
and they become more
and more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count from one up to five
to awaken you, and
at the count of five,
you'll be wide awake,
fully refreshed, alert,
and feeling fantastic,
bringing back with you
with a wonderful new feeling.
So coming back now with one,
two, three, four, and five.
Eyes open when you're ready.